# excelliSCAN Serie_with_SCANahead-Technology

[p.1]
Process Accelerators for Additive Manufacturing
excelliSCAN Series with SCANahead Technology

[p.2]
LASER ON
 
High-End Systems for Additive Manufacturing 
Powder-based 3D printing offers maximum component-design 
flexibility. Additive manufacturing enables fabrication of modern, 
lightweight structures, such as used in the automotive and aero-
space industries.
Industrial laser processing systems for 3D printing have long re-
lied on SCANLAB scan systems to guide the focused laser beam 
precisely and with high dynamics across a powder bed, thereby 
melting defined areas. 
SCANahead Control Boosts Productivity
Faster 3D printing throughput is conventionally achieved by uti-
lizing multi-head systems or higher laser power. But additional 
potential is offered by modern technologies such as SCANLAB’s 
SCANahead servos, which can significantly cut process time via 
much shorter LASER-OFF periods. This effect is particularly pro-
nounced for filigree component structures.
Grid structures are typically fabricated by guiding the laser focus 
in bidirectional scan vectors over the numerous small areas to be 
processed. The large number of short scan vectors requires a high 
proportion of acceleration and braking periods (LASER-OFF).  
SCANahead control enables much higher dynamic performance 
than conventional servos. The result is shorter paths during  
LASER-OFF times (see figure lower left). 
SCANahead control shortens acceleration and deceleration paths
SCANahead – Innovative Scanner Control
with SCANahead 
LASER-OFF 
conventional  
LASER-OFF

[p.3]
1
2
Conventional control
SCANahead control
v
v
t
t
Time saved
Process time per hatchline
Process time per hatchline
LASER-OFF
LASER-ON
High Throughput Thanks to High Acceleration
SCANahead control allows scan systems to deliver full acceleration 
independent of the scan speeds (i.e. with minimum acceleration 
duration t a ). The galvos‘ dynamic performance potential is opti-
mally utilized.
The rapid accelerations sharply shorten acceleration periods and 
braking periods. This significantly reduces the time during which 
the laser remains switched off at each hatch line (see diagram 1). 
This cuts process time and also boosts productivity, without 
requiring changes to process parameters (process speed, laser 
power etc.).
Compared to conventionally controlled scan systems, SCANahead 
servo control can reduce LASER-OFF time (= acceleration time t a ) 
by approx. 80% at a scan speed of vscan = 1m/s (see diagram 2).
SCANahead Control’s Advantages in 3D Printing
•  Boosts productivity via significantly shortened acceleration times 
•  Reduces process time with no need to change process 
parameters
•  An universal tuning assures maximum user friendliness – no delay 
adjustments necessary!
•  Highest accuracy (contour fidelity) and long-term stability thanks 
to the latest digital encoder technology – even for challenging 
scan jobs
Reduced acceleration time with SCANahead control* 
With unchanged LASER-ON times, SCANahead control significantly shortens 
LASER-OFF times (acceleration and braking).
Conventional
control 
SCANahead
control 
Time saved 
ta [µs]
250
50
*Simulation results are based on system with 14 mm aperture and f=500 mm.

[p.4]
SCANLAB America, Inc. · 100 Illinois St · St. Charles, IL 60174 · USA 
Tel. +1 (630) 797-2044 · Fax +1 (630) 797-2001  
info@scanlab-america.com · www.scanlab-america.com
SCANLAB GmbH · Siemensstr. 2a · 82178 Puchheim · Germany 
Tel. +49 (89) 800 746-0 · Fax +49 (89) 800 746-199 
info@scanlab.de · www.scanlab.de
11 / 2019 Information is subject to change without notice. 
Product photos are non-binding and may show customized features. 
RTC6 – Control Board for SCANahead 
Systems
SCANLAB‘s powerful RTC6 control board supports all 
excelliSCAN scan system features, and offers the fol-
lowing additional advantages:
•  Ethernet variant
•  SCANalone functionality (available Q1/2020)
•  Improved processing-on-the-fly functionality for 
ultra-precise processing of moving workpieces
•  New Spot Distance Control (SDC) function allows 
precise laser processing even during acceleration 
and braking phases when used with pulse-on-
demand lasers
excelliSCAN 20 – Highlights
•  New mechanical design with strict spatial separation of 
optics and electronics
•  Air-cooled mirrors allow usage even at high laser powers
•  Optional integrated sensors provide mirror and system 
temperature monitoring for enhanced process safety
Additional excelliSCAN family advantages
•  Digital galvanometer scanners with 20-bit technology for 
maximum positioning accuracy and long-term stability
•  Digital output stages deliver ultimate performance and 
efficiency
•  Optimized mechanics and cooling for improved long-
term stability
•  Convenient and simple commissioning (setup and 
parameter determination) thanks to universal tuning and 
automatically defined scanner and laser delay settings
New!